README.md, before:

# MCP Task Manager

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for AI task management. This tool helps AI assistants handle multi-step tasks in a structured way, with user approval checkpoints.

## Features

- Task planning with multiple steps
- Progress tracking
- User approval of completed tasks
- Project completion approval
- Task details visualization
- Task status state management
- Enhanced CLI for task inspection and management

## Structure

The codebase has been refactored into a modular structure:

```
src/
├── index.ts              # Main entry point
├── cli.ts                # CLI for task approval and listing
├── server/
│   └── TaskManagerServer.ts   # Core server functionality
└── types/
    ├── index.ts          # Type definitions and schemas
    └── tools.ts          # MCP tool definitions
```

## Data Schema and Storage

The task manager stores data in a JSON file with platform-specific default locations:

- **Default locations**: 
  - **Linux**: `~/.local/share/mcp-taskmanager/tasks.json` (following XDG Base Directory specification)
  - **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/mcp-taskmanager/tasks.json`
  - **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\mcp-taskmanager\tasks.json` (typically `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\mcp-taskmanager\tasks.json`)
- **Custom location**: Set via `TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH` environment variable

```bash
# Example of setting custom storage location
TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH=/path/to/custom/tasks.json npm start
```

The data schema is organized as follows:

```
TaskManagerFile
├── projects: Project[]
    ├── projectId: string            # Format: "proj-{number}"
    ├── initialPrompt: string        # Original user request text
    ├── projectPlan: string          # Additional project details
    ├── completed: boolean           # Project completion status
    └── tasks: Task[]                # Array of tasks
        ├── id: string               # Format: "task-{number}"
        ├── title: string            # Short task title
        ├── description: string      # Detailed task description
        ├── status: string           # Task status: "not started", "in progress", or "done"
        ├── approved: boolean        # Task approval status
        └── completedDetails: string # Completion information (required when status is "done")
```

The system persists this structure to the JSON file after each operation.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

You can also install globally:

```bash
npm install -g @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

## Usage

This command will start the MCP server:

```bash
npx -y @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager

# Or, with a custom tasks.json path:
TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH=/path/to/tasks.json npx -y @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

However, usually you will set the tool configuration in Claude Desktop, Cursor, or another MCP client as follows:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager"]
    }
  }
}
```

To use the CLI utility, you can use the following command:

```bash
npx task-manager-cli --help
```

This will show the available commands and options.

## License

MIT

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/bdjh7kx05h"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/bdjh7kx05h/badge" alt="@kazuph/mcp-taskmanager MCP server" /></a>

## Quick Start (For Users)

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (install via `brew install node`)
- Claude Desktop (install from https://claude.ai/desktop)

### Configuration

1. Open your Claude Desktop configuration file at:
`~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

You can find this through the Claude Desktop menu:
1. Open Claude Desktop
2. Click Claude on the Mac menu bar
3. Click "Settings"
4. Click "Developer"

2. Add the following to your configuration:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager"]
    }
  }
}
```

## For Developers

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (install via `brew install node`)
- Claude Desktop (install from https://claude.ai/desktop)
- tsx (install via `npm install -g tsx`)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager.git
cd mcp-taskmanager
npm install
npm run build
```

### Development Configuration

1. Make sure Claude Desktop is installed and running.

2. Install tsx globally if you haven't:
```bash
npm install -g tsx
# or
pnpm add -g tsx
```

3. Modify your Claude Desktop config located at:
`~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

Add the following to your MCP client's configuration:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "args": ["tsx", "/path/to/mcp-taskmanager/index.ts"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Available Operations

The TaskManager now uses a direct tools interface with specific, purpose-built tools for each operation:

### Project Management Tools

- `list_projects`: Lists all projects in the system
- `read_project`: Gets details about a specific project
- `create_project`: Creates a new project with initial tasks
- `delete_project`: Removes a project
- `add_tasks_to_project`: Adds new tasks to an existing project
- `finalize_project`: Finalizes a project after all tasks are done

### Task Management Tools

- `list_tasks`: Lists all tasks for a specific project
- `read_task`: Gets details of a specific task
- `create_task`: Creates a new task in a project
- `update_task`: Modifies a task's properties (title, description, status)
- `delete_task`: Removes a task from a project
- `approve_task`: Approves a completed task
- `get_next_task`: Gets the next pending task in a project
- `mark_task_done`: Marks a task as completed with details

### Task Status and Workflows

Tasks have a status field that can be one of:
- `not started`: Task has not been started yet
- `in progress`: Task is currently being worked on
- `done`: Task has been completed

#### Status Transition Rules
The system enforces the following rules for task status transitions:
- Tasks follow a specific workflow with defined valid transitions:
  - From `not started`: Can only move to `in progress`
  - From `in progress`: Can move to either `done` or back to `not started`
  - From `done`: Can move back to `in progress` if additional work is needed
- When a task is marked as "done", the `completedDetails` field should be provided to document what was completed
- Approved tasks cannot be modified

These rules help maintain the integrity of task progress and ensure proper documentation of completed work.

### Usage Workflow

A typical workflow for an LLM using this task manager would be:

1. `create_project`: Start a project with initial tasks
2. `get_next_task`: Get the first pending task
3. Work on the task
4. `mark_task_done`: Mark the task as complete with details
5. Wait for approval (user must call `approve_task` through the CLI)
6. `get_next_task`: Get the next pending task
7. Repeat steps 3-6 until all tasks are complete
8. `finalize_project`: Complete the project (requires user approval)

### CLI Commands

#### Task Approval

Task approval is controlled exclusively by the human user through a CLI command:

```bash
npm run approve-task -- <projectId> <taskId>
```

Options:
- `-f, --force`: Force approval even if the task is not marked as done

This command sets the `approved` field of a task to `true` after verifying that the task is marked as `done`. Only the human user can approve tasks, ensuring quality control.

#### Listing Tasks and Projects

The CLI provides a command to list all projects and tasks:

```bash
npm run list-tasks
```

To view details of a specific project:

```bash
npm run list-tasks -- -p <projectId>
```

This command displays information about all projects in the system or a specific project, including:
- Project ID and initial prompt
- Completion status
- Task details (title, description, status, approval)
- Progress metrics (approved/completed/total tasks)

## Example Usage

### Creating a Project with Tasks

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the create_project tool
const createProjectResult = await toolManager.callFunction('create_project', {
  initialPrompt: "Create a website for a small business",
  projectPlan: "We'll create a responsive website with Home, About, Services, and Contact pages",
  tasks: [
    { 
      title: "Set up project structure", 
      description: "Create repository and initialize with basic HTML/CSS/JS files" 
    },
    { 
      title: "Design homepage", 
      description: "Create responsive homepage with navigation and hero section" 
    },
    { 
      title: "Implement about page", 
      description: "Create about page with company history and team section" 
    }
  ]
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "planned",
//   projectId: "proj-1234",
//   totalTasks: 3,
//   tasks: [
//     { id: "task-1", title: "Set up project structure", ... },
//     { id: "task-2", title: "Design homepage", ... },
//     { id: "task-3", title: "Implement about page", ... }
//   ],
//   message: "Project created with 3 tasks"
// }
```

### Getting the Next Task

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the get_next_task tool
const nextTaskResult = await toolManager.callFunction('get_next_task', {
  projectId: "proj-1234"
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "next_task",
//   task: {
//     id: "task-1",
//     title: "Set up project structure",
//     description: "Create repository and initialize with basic HTML/CSS/JS files",
//     status: "not started",
//     approved: false
//   },
//   message: "Retrieved next task"
// }
```

### Marking a Task as Done

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the mark_task_done tool
const markDoneResult = await toolManager.callFunction('mark_task_done', {
  projectId: "proj-1234",
  taskId: "task-1",
  completedDetails: "Created repository at github.com/example/business-site and initialized with HTML5 boilerplate, CSS reset, and basic JS structure."
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "task_marked_done",
//   task: {
//     id: "task-1",
//     title: "Set up project structure",
//     status: "done",
//     approved: false,
//     completedDetails: "Created repository at github.com/example/business-site and initialized with HTML5 boilerplate, CSS reset, and basic JS structure."
//   },
//   message: "Task marked as done"
// }
```

### Approving a Task (CLI-only operation)

This operation can only be performed by the user through the CLI:

```bash
npm run approve-task -- proj-1234 task-1
```

After approval, the LLM can check the task status using `read_task` or get the next task using `get_next_task`.

### Finalizing a Project

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the finalize_project tool
// (Called after all tasks are done and approved)
const finalizeResult = await toolManager.callFunction('finalize_project', {
  projectId: "proj-1234"
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "project_finalized",
//   projectId: "proj-1234",
//   message: "Project has been finalized"
// }
```

## Status Codes and Responses

All operations return a status code and message in their response:

### Project Tool Statuses
- `projects_listed`: Successfully listed all projects
- `planned`: Successfully created a new project
- `project_deleted`: Successfully deleted a project
- `tasks_added`: Successfully added tasks to a project
- `project_finalized`: Successfully finalized a project
- `error`: An error occurred (with error message)

### Task Tool Statuses
- `task_details`: Successfully retrieved task details
- `task_updated`: Successfully updated a task
- `task_deleted`: Successfully deleted a task
- `task_not_found`: Task not found
- `error`: An error occurred (with error message)

Commit message:

Support project-level approval from the CLI

README.md, after:

# MCP Task Manager

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for AI task management. This tool helps AI assistants handle multi-step tasks in a structured way, with user approval checkpoints.

## Features

- Task planning with multiple steps
- Progress tracking
- User approval of completed tasks
- Project completion approval
- Task details visualization
- Task status state management
- Enhanced CLI for task inspection and management

## Structure

The codebase has been refactored into a modular structure:

```
src/
├── index.ts              # Main entry point
├── cli.ts                # CLI for task approval and listing
├── server/
│   └── TaskManagerServer.ts   # Core server functionality
└── types/
    ├── index.ts          # Type definitions and schemas
    └── tools.ts          # MCP tool definitions
```

## Data Schema and Storage

The task manager stores data in a JSON file with platform-specific default locations:

- **Default locations**: 
  - **Linux**: `~/.local/share/mcp-taskmanager/tasks.json` (following XDG Base Directory specification)
  - **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/mcp-taskmanager/tasks.json`
  - **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\mcp-taskmanager\tasks.json` (typically `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\mcp-taskmanager\tasks.json`)
- **Custom location**: Set via `TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH` environment variable

```bash
# Example of setting custom storage location
TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH=/path/to/custom/tasks.json npm start
```

The data schema is organized as follows:

```
TaskManagerFile
├── projects: Project[]
    ├── projectId: string            # Format: "proj-{number}"
    ├── initialPrompt: string        # Original user request text
    ├── projectPlan: string          # Additional project details
    ├── completed: boolean           # Project completion status
    └── tasks: Task[]                # Array of tasks
        ├── id: string               # Format: "task-{number}"
        ├── title: string            # Short task title
        ├── description: string      # Detailed task description
        ├── status: string           # Task status: "not started", "in progress", or "done"
        ├── approved: boolean        # Task approval status
        └── completedDetails: string # Completion information (required when status is "done")
```

The system persists this structure to the JSON file after each operation.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

You can also install globally:

```bash
npm install -g @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

## Usage

This command will start the MCP server:

```bash
npx -y @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager

# Or, with a custom tasks.json path:
TASK_MANAGER_FILE_PATH=/path/to/tasks.json npx -y @chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager
```

However, usually you will set the tool configuration in Claude Desktop, Cursor, or another MCP client as follows:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager"]
    }
  }
}
```

To use the CLI utility, you can use the following command:

```bash
npx task-manager-cli --help
```

This will show the available commands and options.

## License

MIT

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/bdjh7kx05h"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/bdjh7kx05h/badge" alt="@kazuph/mcp-taskmanager MCP server" /></a>

## Quick Start (For Users)

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (install via `brew install node`)
- Claude Desktop (install from https://claude.ai/desktop)

### Configuration

1. Open your Claude Desktop configuration file at:
`~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

You can find this through the Claude Desktop menu:
1. Open Claude Desktop
2. Click Claude on the Mac menu bar
3. Click "Settings"
4. Click "Developer"

2. Add the following to your configuration:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager"]
    }
  }
}
```

## For Developers

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (install via `brew install node`)
- Claude Desktop (install from https://claude.ai/desktop)
- tsx (install via `npm install -g tsx`)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chriscarrollsmith/mcp-taskmanager.git
cd mcp-taskmanager
npm install
npm run build
```

### Development Configuration

1. Make sure Claude Desktop is installed and running.

2. Install tsx globally if you haven't:
```bash
npm install -g tsx
# or
pnpm add -g tsx
```

3. Modify your Claude Desktop config located at:
`~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

Add the following to your MCP client's configuration:

```json
{
  "tools": {
    "taskmanager": {
      "args": ["tsx", "/path/to/mcp-taskmanager/index.ts"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Available Operations

The TaskManager now uses a direct tools interface with specific, purpose-built tools for each operation:

### Project Management Tools

- `list_projects`: Lists all projects in the system
- `read_project`: Gets details about a specific project
- `create_project`: Creates a new project with initial tasks
- `delete_project`: Removes a project
- `add_tasks_to_project`: Adds new tasks to an existing project
- `finalize_project`: Finalizes a project after all tasks are done

### Task Management Tools

- `list_tasks`: Lists all tasks for a specific project
- `read_task`: Gets details of a specific task
- `create_task`: Creates a new task in a project
- `update_task`: Modifies a task's properties (title, description, status)
- `delete_task`: Removes a task from a project
- `approve_task`: Approves a completed task
- `get_next_task`: Gets the next pending task in a project
- `mark_task_done`: Marks a task as completed with details

### Task Status and Workflows

Tasks have a status field that can be one of:
- `not started`: Task has not been started yet
- `in progress`: Task is currently being worked on
- `done`: Task has been completed (requires `completedDetails`)

#### Status Transition Rules

The system enforces the following rules for task status transitions:
- Tasks follow a specific workflow with defined valid transitions:
  - From `not started`: Can only move to `in progress`
  - From `in progress`: Can move to either `done` or back to `not started`
  - From `done`: Can move back to `in progress` if additional work is needed
- When a task is marked as "done", the `completedDetails` field must be provided to document what was completed
- Approved tasks cannot be modified
- A project can only be approved when all tasks are both done and approved

These rules help maintain the integrity of task progress and ensure proper documentation of completed work.

### Usage Workflow

A typical workflow for an LLM using this task manager would be:

1. `create_project`: Start a project with initial tasks
2. `get_next_task`: Get the first pending task
3. Work on the task
4. `mark_task_done`: Mark the task as complete with details
5. Wait for approval (user must call `approve_task` through the CLI)
6. `get_next_task`: Get the next pending task
7. Repeat steps 3-6 until all tasks are complete
8. `finalize_project`: Complete the project (requires user approval)

### CLI Commands

#### Task Approval

Task approval is controlled exclusively by the human user through the CLI command:

```bash
npm run approve-task -- <projectId> <taskId>
```

Options:
- `-f, --force`: Force approval even if the task is not marked as done

Note: Tasks must be marked as "done" with completed details before they can be approved (unless using --force).

#### Listing Tasks and Projects

The CLI provides a command to list all projects and tasks:

```bash
npm run list-tasks
```

To view details of a specific project:

```bash
npm run list-tasks -- -p <projectId>
```

This command displays information about all projects in the system or a specific project, including:
- Project ID and initial prompt
- Completion status
- Task details (title, description, status, approval)
- Progress metrics (approved/completed/total tasks)

## Example Usage

### Creating a Project with Tasks

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the create_project tool
const createProjectResult = await toolManager.callFunction('create_project', {
  initialPrompt: "Create a website for a small business",
  projectPlan: "We'll create a responsive website with Home, About, Services, and Contact pages",
  tasks: [
    { 
      title: "Set up project structure", 
      description: "Create repository and initialize with basic HTML/CSS/JS files" 
    },
    { 
      title: "Design homepage", 
      description: "Create responsive homepage with navigation and hero section" 
    },
    { 
      title: "Implement about page", 
      description: "Create about page with company history and team section" 
    }
  ]
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "planned",
//   projectId: "proj-1234",
//   totalTasks: 3,
//   tasks: [
//     { id: "task-1", title: "Set up project structure", ... },
//     { id: "task-2", title: "Design homepage", ... },
//     { id: "task-3", title: "Implement about page", ... }
//   ],
//   message: "Project created with 3 tasks"
// }
```

### Getting the Next Task

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the get_next_task tool
const nextTaskResult = await toolManager.callFunction('get_next_task', {
  projectId: "proj-1234"
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "next_task",
//   task: {
//     id: "task-1",
//     title: "Set up project structure",
//     description: "Create repository and initialize with basic HTML/CSS/JS files",
//     status: "not started",
//     approved: false
//   },
//   message: "Retrieved next task"
// }
```

### Marking a Task as Done

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the mark_task_done tool
const markDoneResult = await toolManager.callFunction('mark_task_done', {
  projectId: "proj-1234",
  taskId: "task-1",
  completedDetails: "Created repository at github.com/example/business-site and initialized with HTML5 boilerplate, CSS reset, and basic JS structure."  // Required when marking as done
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "task_marked_done",
//   task: {
//     id: "task-1",
//     title: "Set up project structure",
//     status: "done",
//     approved: false,
//     completedDetails: "Created repository at github.com/example/business-site and initialized with HTML5 boilerplate, CSS reset, and basic JS structure."
//   },
//   message: "Task marked as done"
// }
```

### Approving a Task (CLI-only operation)

This operation can only be performed by the user through the CLI:

```bash
npm run approve-task -- proj-1234 task-1
```

After approval, the LLM can check the task status using `read_task` or get the next task using `get_next_task`.

### Finalizing a Project

```javascript
// Example of how an LLM would use the finalize_project tool
// (Called after all tasks are done and approved)
const finalizeResult = await toolManager.callFunction('finalize_project', {
  projectId: "proj-1234"
});

// Response will include:
// {
//   status: "project_finalized",
//   projectId: "proj-1234",
//   message: "Project has been finalized"
// }
```

## Status Codes and Responses

All operations return a status code and message in their response:

### Project Tool Statuses
- `projects_listed`: Successfully listed all projects
- `planned`: Successfully created a new project
- `project_deleted`: Successfully deleted a project
- `tasks_added`: Successfully added tasks to a project
- `project_finalized`: Successfully finalized a project
- `error`: An error occurred (with error message)

### Task Tool Statuses
- `task_details`: Successfully retrieved task details
- `task_updated`: Successfully updated a task
- `task_deleted`: Successfully deleted a task
- `task_not_found`: Task not found
- `error`: An error occurred (with error message)
